# Structural seismic response reconstruction based on physical constraints neural network of floor response spectra
Abstract: Structural seismic response monitoring (SSRM) systems typically can only measure responses at limited locations, leading to the incomplete attainment of dynamic responses. This study developed an end-to-end physics-guided neural network with adaptive multi-level fusion outputs. Incorporating the concept of autoencoders, the network reconstructs seismic responses at non-instrumented floors based on base and roof acceleration records, and structural characteristics. The floor response spectra (FRS) are incorporated into the neural network's loss function as a physical constraint to improve prediction accuracy and enhance its physical significance. Finally, the proposed prediction model’s performance and generalization ability were validated using numerical data of five reinforced concrete (RC) frame structures with varying characteristics, measured data of an RC frame shaking table test, and monitoring data of an RC frame structure under earthquake. In addition, the predicted accelerations were further applied to evaluate the damage states of non-structural components (NSCs). Results show that, for acceleration time-history prediction, the physics-informed loss function of FRS reduces absolute percentage error (APE) from 24.06% to 20.37%, increases cross-correlation coefficient (XR) to 0.7928, and decreases both normalized mean absolute error (NMAE) and normalized mean squared error (NMSE). For FRS prediction, APE is reduced by 3.58% and XR rises to 0.9450. The damage assessment accuracy for NSCs reaches 76.2%. These demonstrate that the proposed structural seismic response reconstruction method exhibits excellent predictive performance in numerical, test and monitoring data, and can be effectively applied to NSCs evaluation. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2025.114972)
